# Nexus Runtime

This crate contains the Nexus Runtime for RISC-V.  The
runtime includes basic startup code, a memory allocator, and
functions for accessing VM built-ins, such as `write_log`.

## Getting Started

First, you will need a rust compiler with the RISC-V target
installed.  If you do no have the RISC-V target installed,
you can install it with `rustup`:

```
rustup target add riscv32i-unknown-none-elf
```

Once your compiler is setup, the easiest way to start a new
project is to install the `nexus-tools` crate, and use the
`cargo nexus new` command. You can also setup your new
project manually as described below.

To start, you will need to create a new project and add the
`nexus-rt` crate as a dependency:

```
cargo new myproject
cd myproject
cargo add nexus-rt
```

Next, for convenience, you can set the default target and
linker flags for the project in the `.cargo/config.toml` file
under the project directory. The contents of the file should
be:

```
[build]
target = "riscv32i-unknown-none-elf"

[target.riscv32i-unknown-none-elf]
rustflags = [
  "-C", "link-arg=-Tlink.x",
]
```

The `build` section configures the default target to RISC-V
(installed above). The `target` section sets a command line
option which will include the `link.x` linker script
(contained in this repo) in the build process. This linker
script lays out the code and data of your program in a
simple way to make proving more efficient.

Finally, a minimal `main.rs` file may look like:

```rust
#![no_std]
#![no_main]

#[nexus_rt::main]
fn main() {}
```

The first two lines declare that our program will not link
against the `std` crate, and that we do not want the
compiler to emit the standard start-up code to process
command-line arguments and call `main`. The Nexus Runtime
has a minimal start-up process and will call your entry
function directly.  The fourth line brings the nexux-rt
`entry` macro into scope.  This macro is used to mark the
`main` function as the starting point of the program.

To run your program, you can use either the `nexus-tools`,
or the `nexus-riscv` crate. The `nexus-tools` uses the
`nexus-riscv` crate internally. To use the `nexus-riscv`
crate, compile the crate and use the included commend-line
tool:

```
nexus-riscv path_to_elf_file
```
